------------------------ Submission 2619, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: FormaTrack: Tracking People based on Body Shape


Primary Associate Editor's recommendation to Editors

   Acceptable with minor (or no) changes by IMWUT

Primary Associate Editor meta-review

   The paper has received some quite differing scores. However the substance
   of all reviews was quite similar. The general idea and some basic results
   are very interesting. However there were some suggestions/claims with
   respect to scalability to larger buildings and more people which are just
   too speculative. Also, the reviewers requested detailed information about
   the power consumptions. In this sense the minor review as such has to be
   taken seriously and will be carefully evaluated by the AE

Primary Associate Editor Meta-review: Major / minor revision requirements

   - Make sure that claims related to building level tracking and more
   people are scaled back.
   - Provide absolute power consumption numbers

Additional comments for authors

   (blank)


------------------------ Submission 2619, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: FormaTrack: Tracking People based on Body Shape


Contribution to IMWUT

   The authors have taken a single-chip ultra wide band impulse radar
   transceiver which has been used for sleep, respiratory monitoring and
   occupancy and with the aid of supervised machine learning they have
   produced a system to differentiate people moving through doorways in
   different ways. In effect a person detection system, at a room level. By
   taking all the distance data from the radar signal they can improve over
   height measures alone (~80% to 90%) in a 2 person in a group
   configuration. When considering a group of 8 with heights from 161-183cm
   and 60.8kg to 97.9kg their accuracy is reduced to a little over 60%.
   However, the can demonstrate convincing results when larger room
   configurations are considered.

Review

   The authors have used a XeThru radar which affords a single chip
   (monostatic) implementation of an Impulse Radar system. The company which
   produces this offers various distance, presence and motion features in
   their products.

   The authors are interested in proposing a new biometric feature called
   body shape. However, this is not well defined one introduced. Section 1
   could be improved with a diagram which illustrates what areas of the body
   are considered part of the body shape metric. The later discussion and
   results show that height is a large determining factor and perhaps then
   head to shoulders in the next largest factor. Does the actual shape of
   the torso, arms, hands, face and legs actually have anything to
   contribute here? Instead is it simply head distance and shoulder distance
   and cross section of head and shoulders?

   More detail should be provided on how you have emulated 15 different
   floors plans. Currently it suggest an arbitrary selection of floor plans
   and random movements were used, whereas you would not expect some
   configurations to result in all possible movement patterns being seen. I
   would like to see test results of just straight movement through the
   doorways being reported on in terms of accuracy. I fear the random
   movements + arbitrary floor plans are resulting in the simulation of more
   unique movement pattern that might be expected in a real deployment.

   For a journal paper the related work section is quite brief.

   Some related work in tracking or tracking objects or use of Radar and ML
   with recognizing body parts
   Powerline positioning: A practical sub-room-level indoor location system
   for domestic use
   Recognizing daily activities with RFID-based sensors
   RadarCat: Radar Categorization for Input & Interaction
   A survey of indoor positioning and object locating systems
   Object tracking: A survey

   There are a wealth of location based systems, room level tracking and
   presence detection research and use of Radar for sensing objects and body
   parts. I would like to have seen a more systematic treatment of
   description of how these pieces of related work were selected (e.g.
   reporting of a systematic literature review process)


   There are about 5 pages of radar and measurement description provided
   here. What is not clear is how much this contributes to the paper. For
   example, the XeThru radar provides a distance measure but this isn't
   considered or compared with in section 3.2 for distance estimation.

   Section 3.3 is very limited. I was expecting to be presented with details
   on what is happening as a body moves through the doorway in terms of the
   reflected signal at key points. As noted earlier the use of blackbox for
   your machine learning means you cannot detail what aspects of the body
   are contributing to the reflected signal and hence the metric.

   The experimental setup and evaluation are well described and well
   reported.











Recommendation(s) to 1AE

   Acceptable with minor (or no) changes by IMWUT

Major / minor revisions (recommendation to 1AE)

   Improvements on the related work
   Diagrams, as noted, to improve the presentation of the work
   More details in section 3.3 (e.g. aided by diagrams)

Confidence in the review

   Very confident - I am knowledgeable in the area


------------------------ Submission 2619, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: FormaTrack: Tracking People based on Body Shape


Contribution to IMWUT

   This paper describes an ambient system that recognizes identity and the
   direction of a single person when he/she is passing through a door. The
   system doesn't raise privacy concern as camera and microphone. The
   evaluation demonstrates a quite attractive accuracy.

Review

   In general, this is a really nice paper that I enjoyed reading.

   + a clever idea: the system setup contains sufficient information for
   identifying a person, even when the person is carrying different extra
   things (e.g. cap, mobile phone), and on the other hand doesn't capture
   too rich information that might raise privacy concern.
   + the paper is well-organized and well-written (e.g. structure,
   language).
   + the experiment is well-designed considering multiple aspects like
   different walking path, the difference between day to day. The number of
   participants is also OK (except one experiment)
   + multiple aspects of the system are considered, including power
   consumption, the time needed for training. These are essential for real
   implementation.

   There are only some small points that need further clarification and
   improvement.
   . in the abstract, it's declared, that "we expect that other, more
   sophisticated radar sensors can achieve high accuracy with more people
   and in larger buildings". I feel it's a little bit exaggerating, I guess
   with more sophisticated radar sensors, the algorithms also need to be
   changed. How many percent of content in this paper can still be used
   remains unclear. I'd rather either not claim it or provide more details
   (what kinds of radar sensor, what further algorithms, what kind of
   improvement etc.).
   . the participant number in the last experiment is only 2. This is pretty
   small. I fully understand the difficulty in data gather and processing,
   but with a number of 2, the result (although very promising now) is not
   very convincing.
   . it's very nice to consider the power consumption and it's great to see
   power consumption can be dropped to 30%. However, it would be nice to
   provide the power consumption in number (viz., in Watt), and considering
   how much power is used in data gathering and how much in data processing
   . If more data can be provided on other typical door passing system (how
   much power they consume) so that the reader can compare between the
   FormaTrack and them, it will be very welcome.

Recommendation(s) to 1AE

   Acceptable with minor (or no) changes by IMWUT

Major / minor revisions (recommendation to 1AE)

   I'd highly suggest increasing the number of participants to at least 5
   (if not already more than 5) in all experiment.

Confidence in the review

   Very confident - I am knowledgeable in the area


------------------------ Submission 2619, Review 4 ------------------------

Title: FormaTrack: Tracking People based on Body Shape


Contribution to IMWUT

   The article is about a new approach to detect and identify persons
   passung through doors. The underlying technology utilizes radar
   information up to 1m. The authors discuss after their introduction and
   problem definition related work and after that present their idea
   utilizing radar information. They therefore give a short introduction
   into the technic of radar based sensing including the possiblities of
   relying on the so called doppler effect. The step by step improve the
   system to reduce false positives and introduce new algorithms for
   determing the direction from which side the person is entering the room.
   Applying machine learning approaches the authors can differentiate
   between two persons with close to 100 percent confidence which drops to
   80 person if they try to differentiate 4 persons. In a simulation they
   surveile the possibility to track up to 4 persons in different
   floorplans. In another chapter the authors discuss the power reduction by
   either combining the system with a pir sensor or by reducing the sampling
   rates of the system.

Review

   Although I really like the idea of this paper using radar sensors to
   detect the movements of persons throughout the houshold I have mixed
   fealings about this work:
   1) Structure: Initially the authors discuss their idea of using radar
   sensors to detect the movements introducing an abstract description of
   the problem. Coming from data processing and anaylis, I would have
   prefered learning more about the used radar systems at the beginning of
   the article (which would have avoided many thoughts untill I reached the
   evaluation part). Issues which I would have adressed earlier: Sampling
   rate of the used system, range
   2) Discussion of the power consumption: There are no number about the
   power consumption of the system without power saving features.
   3) What happens if a very large person walks through the door so that the
   head is closer to the sensor than the given noise threshold?

   4) Health considerations with regard to large persons
   5) Tracking of persons throughout the house - These are only hypothesis -
   The simulation gives you hints - but from a single door to an complete
   house - there are more issues which have to be considered... (And this
   chapter gives the reader the feeling of reading an advertisement for your
   other papers ;)).
   6) Evalutation / Testing: The authors record the weigh of persons only
   once (or perhaps they ask them), RF Reflections / signal attenuation
   strongly depend on the fraction of water being part of the obstacle,
   therefore I think the article should also consider this. In the training
   / evaluation using machine learning approaches, the authors can achieve
   this by using random samples of a data set from the persons from each day
   throughout the week (which would consider the changes in water ratios -
   especially if subjects come from gym...)

Recommendation(s) to 1AE

   Reject

Major / minor revisions (recommendation to 1AE)

   (blank)

Confidence in the review

   Highly confident - I consider myself an expert in the area


------------------------ Submission 2619, Review 5 ------------------------

Title: FormaTrack: Tracking People based on Body Shape


Contribution to IMWUT

   This paper presents a study on the use of a body-shape detecting,
   monostatic radar (mounted on a door frame) to track people in a
   multi-occupancy home. The paper includes an in-depth description of a
   method for 1) detecting when someone walks through a doorway, 2)
   determining direction of travel, 3) identifying the person from a group
   of up to 8 people. The authors further examine the use of this technique
   by incorporating a simulation of a multi-room, multi-person scenario. The
   main study is carried out using 8 people over 7 days, and includes
   variations in clothing. In an additional study, 2 people are analysed
   while carrying different objects.

   Overall the methods described are of sufficient detail for
   reproducibility, and the evaluation makes a convincing case for using
   this method in future work. This would be an excellent contribution to
   IMWUT, of interest both to those working on home sensing and sensing more
   generally.


Review



   I like this work. Almost all of my potential comments were addressed as
   the paper went on. Those that remain are detailed in the 'Minor
   Revisions' section below.

   The biggest concern I have is with my (mis) interpretation of Figure 3
   (see below). In brief, why is the non-crossing (noise) distance not
   higher than the the ends of the crossing distance?

   Some additional thoughts while reading: It is interesting that high-heels
   can greatly affect the results (why is this result not in Fig 16?) It
   would seem that the ideal training might involve instances of each person
   wearing their most variously shaped clothing (heels, sandles, big hats,
   etc.)

   The addition of extra sensors to save power makes sense, although it does
   have the limitation of extra installation costs. [I'm curious if the
   information from those sensors might even be added to the radar to
   improve the accuracy of the direction algorithm.] I would also be
   interested to know what the actual power usage of the equipment is.




Recommendation(s) to 1AE

   Acceptable with minor (or no) changes by IMWUT

Major / minor revisions (recommendation to 1AE)

   I have a number of issues that I would like to see addressed:

        1. section 3 onwards refers to 'non crossing', could you briefly define
   exactly what this means early on (i.e. no-one is there, rather than
   someone standing still under the door)

        2. I am confused by Fig3 (a) and the accompanying text in 3.1. Why would
   the 'non-crossing' distance be lower than the 'crossing' event? Judging
   by the response of a crossing event, I would have expected the
   non-crossing distance to be closer to 1.0. Is this some kind of distance
   range measure rather than an absolute distance? Could you please explain
   this?

        3. Also with Fig3 (b), why are all of the non-crossing events within the
   first 40 or so events? This figure needs to be better explained.

        4. In 3.2 the "Radar Frame Rate" is mentioned but is nowhere defined.
   Later we learn that the "frame rate" is 170Hz, but how does this fit with
   the formula in 3.2  ( 170/(2*K) Hz doesn't seem right...)? Or is F some
   other number. Please clarify this and the text following equation 3.

        5. Further limitations. Out of curiosity: what happens if a person stops
   and waits for a period of time on one side of the door? Similarly if a
   person changes speed while walking through the door.

        6. If available, what is the actual power consumption of the radar
   device?


   Minor comments:

   - on writing: 3.2, p9. "For this we tilt FormaTrack towards one of the
   rooms" -- this is written here as if its the first time the idea was
   mentioned, but the first paragraph of 3.2 already introduces it. Perhaps
   re-phrase here as a reminder.

   - style: the end of p9 looks like an unfinished sentence (because the
   eqn. falls onto the next page). Personally I prefer to see some form of
   punctuation indicating what is to follow, e.g. a colon.

   - 4, p10 "i.e. once each day" -- should that not be 25 times each day?

Confidence in the review

   Highly confident - I consider myself an expert in the area
